---
layout: base
title: SDEV 120 - M06
---

> The Tao produced One; One produced Two; Two produced Three; Three produced All things. \
-- Lao-tzu

- [Announcements](#announcements)
- [Agenda](#agenda)


## Announcements

- Ch6 reading on arrays added to IvyLearn

## Agenda

- Finish M05
- Review M06 assignments
- Lecture M06

<!-- SDLC?; UML; state diagrams; set theory and related logic -->

# UML

<!-- ref: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ok6_Q5JWYdK6HiAb7YKZR1Aw13tNrHm8aajtnA-ZUFc/edit -->

## What is it?

**UML** = Unified Modeling Language

- Standardized way to model software. 
- Visual language that allows us to communicate the design of a system.
- Primary authors are Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, and Ivar Jacobson.
- Solved problem of competing / differing documentation styles.
    - You can show UML to someone anywhere in the world and they will understand it.

These diagrams capture information about various contexts.

- Roles of people building / maintaining / using the software.
- Hardware involved.
- Functionality of the system, in various scopes and levels of detail.

#### What is it not
- UML is _not_ a programming language. It's a visual description language.

## What is it used for?

- Planning new functionality for software.
- Reference when modifying existing functionality.
- Communicating with stakeholders (documentation).
- Training new team members.

## Classifications of UML Diagrams

### Structural Diagrams

Show static relationships between system components; anatomy of a system.

Types include:
- Class Diagram
- Object Diagram
- Component Diagram
- Deployment Diagram
- Package Diagram
- Composite Structure Diagram

### Behavioral Diagrams

Show dynamic interactions between system components; behavior of a system.

Types include:
- Use Case Diagram
- Activity Diagram
- State Machine Diagram
- Sequence Diagram
- Communication Diagram
- Timing Diagram

## Types of UML Diagrams

From [An introduction to the Unified Modeling Language - IBM Developer](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/an-introduction-to-uml/):

> "The most useful, standard UML diagrams are: use-case diagram, class diagram, sequence diagram, statechart diagram, activity diagram, component diagram, and deployment diagram."

<mark>...pick up here...</mark>

### Use Case Diagram

### Class Diagram

### Sequence Diagram

### State Diagram

### Activity Diagram

### Hybrids

It’s useful to have a baseline knowledge of UML if you work with software at all. Even rough sketches can save valuable communication time.

Case study: 
- Critical failure for end of month bill release.
- Parties involved:
    - Client
    - Analyst / client liaison
    - Dev (me)
- Verbal description of problem cause and resolution steps were not working.
- Analyst and client can't "see the code".
- Dirty whiteboard sketch (flowchart / state diagram hybrid) lead to quick resolution.

Mix and match to suit your needs.

- Activity / state / swimlane diagram?


# Set Theory

<!-- ref: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xrltP4pU9FkZtHtX5-glQ-6xtKQ17o1C2PjoDaTsWKo/edit -->